<!---
 - @name Data Types
 - @slugs Types Data_Types
 --->

To remain consistent across formats, to alleviate confusion, and to avoid redundancy, this page lists all the standard data types that will be used across formats. This page does not list data types that are unique to one format or a group of formats.

__TOC__

== Basic Data Types ==

<table>
 <tr>
  <th>Name</th>
  <th>Value</th>
  <th>Size</th>
  <th>Notes</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>bool/boolean</td>
  <td>true/false</td>
  <td>1 byte</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>byte / unsigned byte</td>
  <td>0 to 255</td>
  <td>1 byte</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>sbyte / signed byte</td>
  <td>-127 to 127</td>
  <td>1 byte</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>char / unsigned char</td>
  <td>0 to 255</td>
  <td>1 byte</td>
  <td>Denotes an unsigned byte that contains one character.</td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>schar / signed char</td>
  <td>-127 to 127</td>
  <td>1 byte</td>
  <td>Denotes a signed byte that contains one character.</td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>short / signed short</td>
  <td>-32,768 to 32,767</td>
  <td>2 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>ushort / unsigned short</td>
  <td>0 to 65,535</td>
  <td>2 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>int / signed int</td>
  <td>-2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647</td>
  <td>4 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>uint / unsigned int</td>
  <td>0 to 4,294,967,295</td>
  <td>4 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>long / signed long</td>
  <td>−9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807</td>
  <td>8 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>ulong / unsigned long</td>
  <td>0 to 18,446,744,073,709,551,615</td>
  <td>8 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr> 
  <td>float</td>
  <td>Single-precision floating-point number (IEEE 754)</td>
  <td>4 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>double</td>
  <td>Double-precision floating-point number (IEEE 754)</td>
  <td>8 bytes</td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
  <tr>
  <td>string</td>
  <td>Null-terminated sequence of characters.</td>
  <td>Varies</td>
  <td>When used, it should be noted what encoding the text is in (ASCII, UCS2, UTF-8, etc)</td>
 </tr>
</table>

== Arrays ==
Arrays should be written in the following notation:
<pre>type[n] name;</pre>
Arrays are, unless noted, contiguous; that means that if you read ''n'' values of ''type'' from the format, you'd get the proper data.

== Why `long`? ==
`long` is used as the name for a 64 bit integer for several reasons:
* It's not used anywhere else on the table.
* There is no consistent naming for a 64 bit integer across platforms.
* It makes sense for Java or C# developers.